Day 1 – Lemosho Glades
From your lodge, we will make our way to the Londorosi gate on the Western side of Mt. Kilimanjaro (a few hours drive from Arusha). We will begin our hike at the Lemosho trail head.

Please note that in rainy/muddy conditions, sometimes the vehicles can’t make it to the true trailhead so there can be some extra hiking –  After a picnic lunch, we will hike for about 4 hours to the forest camp.

In the forest, exotic moss and flowers delight the eye while bird calls entertain the ear. You may see Black and White Colobus monkeys as well as signs of the elephants that travel in this area. We will overnight at Forest Camp.
Hiking: 3-4 hours
Overnight Altitude ~9,498’

Day 2 – Shira Plateau
As we leave the Montane Forest and enter the Hagenia zone, our views open and we will catch our first views of the Kibo peak. This is a good acclimatization hike, as we go up and down several ridges along the way to our highest point of the day at 11,500’ before descending to camp.  Overnight at Shira 1 Camp.
Hiking: 6-9 hours
Overnight Altitude 11,500’

Day 3 –  Moir Camp
We will traverse the Heath zone of the Shira Plateau and begin climbing the western slope of the Kibo Massif. Along the way, we will enjoy a picnic lunch at Scott Fisher memorial camp (the well-known Mt. Everest guide). We will continue on to the upper heath zone and Moir camp. Depending on the weather, acclimatization hikes can be arranged in the late afternoon
Hiking: 5-6 hours
Overnight Altitude: ~13,650′

Day 4 – Barranco Camp
We leave the heath zone and enter the alpine zone as we hike 4-6 hours past Lava Camp (up to about 14,300’) with its volcanic landscape and then down a bit into the scenic Barranco Valley to camp.
Hiking: 4-6 hours
Overnight Altitude: ~13,044′

Day 5 – Karanga Camp
Ascend the Great Barranco Wall with views of Kilimanjaro’s ice fields, then hike up and down across some small valleys on your way to Karanga Camp.
Hiking: 3-5 hours
Overnight Altitude: ~13,106′

Day 6 – Barafu Camp
Hike about 3-5 hours to Barafu Camp, again with some ups and downs across small valleys. After settling into camp, we’ll have a demonstration on use of safety equipment such as the Gamow (hyperbolic) bag and oxygen. Early supper and rest in camp before your wake-up call to start your summit ascent around 11:00 PM or midnight.
Hiking: 3-5 hours
Overnight Altitude: ~15,100’

Day 7 – Summit and Mweka Camp
Summit day. We will start our ascent to the summit (19,340ft – 5,896m) around 11:00 PM or midnight the night prior. The goal for you – and numerous other climbers – is to reach the peak right at sunrise. In reality, due to differences in hiking speed, energy, and altitude acclimatization, there is a several hour span where most climbers reach the summit.

Using headlamps (bring extra lithium batteries, which last much better in cold dark conditions!) you will ascend 6-7 hours to Stella Point and then another 1-2 hours to Uhuru Peak, the summit. After a summit celebration and photo, descend to Barafu camp for lunch and then to Mweka camp to sleep overnight.
Hiking: Very variable on both the up and the down; 12-17 hours typical
Summit 19,341’
Overnight Altitude: 10,448’

Day 8 – Mweka Park Gate
We make the final descent to the trailhead today, about 3-5 hours hiking. Here we will have lunch and say goodbye to our mountain crew before leaving Mount Kilimanjaro and heading back to town. Arrive at your lodge usually between 3-5 PM.
Hiking: 3-5 hours

 